the dayton city paper is an alternative newspaper emphasizing arts, culture, entertainment and a little politics, published weekly and distributed throughout the dayton, ohio metro region. the first edition of the paper was published on august 26, 1993 under the name the dayton voice. in the early 2000s, the paper's name was changed to impact weekly due to legal pressure from the nationally known alternative newsweekly, the village voice. on april 3, 2003, the paper was renamed the dayton city paper. editorially and visually, the all-color dayton city paper reads much more like a local niche magazine than it does a typical alternative weekly. whereas many alternative newsweeklies across the country tend to take political sides and emphasize subculture lifestyles, the dayton city paper tends to focus on arts and culture with special consistent emphasis on performing and visual arts, music of nearly every genre, film, epicurean features including dining, wine and beer, literature, the environment, social issues, politics, and entertainment. in addition to over 80% locally written content, the publication also features a carefully selected roster of quality syndicated content well appreciated by its eclectic and educated audience including amy alkon's "the advice goddess", chuck shepard's "news of the weird," cariel's "sign language astrology," the new york times sunday crossword, as well as weekly editorial cartoons including don asmussen's "bad reporter," and donna barstow's "daily special," and satire by ted rall. the paper's staff and freelance writers authoritatively deliver the editorial quality readers demand. readers especially enjoy the weekly locally driven "debate forum" where opposing writers argue in a true debate format in favor or against political and social issues of the day. the dcp also partners with regional towns with highlighted events and issues in monthly features entitled "destination: yellow springs," "destination: troy," and "explore miamisburg." similarly, and in recognition of the extraordinarily popular strength of the regional visual art community, the dcp also presents a unique monthly special insert section called "art everywhere" highlighting visual art related events, organizations and artists. the paper can be found free every tuesday at over five hundred pickup locations within the metro dayton region including areas as far north as tipp city / troy; west in areas such as trotwood, west carrollton, and miamisburg; east including springfield, yellow springs, and xenia; and as far south as springboro / franklin. specific pickup locations can be found on the dcp website. the dcp website daytoncitypaper.com delivers nearly all editorial content online in addition to "page-flip" versions of the printed paper by clicking on the back-issues button. on april 25, 2015, the official website of the dayton city paper was hacked by unknown individual or individuals claiming to be affiliated with the islamic state of iraq and the levant (isis). the site's homepage played foreign music, displayed picture of a masked man holding an apparent assault rifle and displayed the message "hacked by team system dz. i am muslim & i love jihad. i love isis <3." on january 20, 2015, the dayton city paper chose to approximate via illustrated parody the cover of the january 14 issue of charlie hebdo following the charlie hebdo shooting and the paper's publisher, paul noah, stated that he suspected the hacking could be related.