anthony charles zinni (born september 17, 1943) is a retired united states marine corps general and a former commander in chief of the united states central command (centcom). in 2002, he was selected to be a special envoy for the united states to israel and the palestinian authority. while serving as special envoy, zinni was also an instructor in the department of international studies at the virginia military institute. currently, he is an instructor at the sanford school of public policy at duke university, a public speaker, and an author of best-selling books on his military career and foreign affairs, including battle for peace. as of 2005, he was involved in the corporate world, joining m.i.c. industries as its president for international operations in 2005. zinni is currently senior advisor to ron wahid, chairman of arcanum, a subsidiary of magellan investment holdings, limited. zinni also serves or has served on the advisory boards of a number of companies, including the security testing firm, mu dynamics, based in sunnyvale, california. he joined duke university's terry sanford institute of public policy in spring 2008 as the sanford distinguished lecturer in residence and taught a new course in the hart leadership program. as of 2014, he serves as chairman of the board of governors of the middle east institute. he has been named honorary chairman of that institution. general zinni also serves as an honorary board member of the non profit wine country marines - a 501 (c) 3 dedicated to helping wounded service members, and aiding the welfare of currently serving service members, as well as addressing veterans employment and transition and healthcare. he has been credited for foresight in predicting the dangers of terrorism coming out of afghanistan before the september 11 attacks of 2001 and supporting the iraq war troop surge of 2007. in october 2009 he came out firmly in support of general stanley a. mcchrystal's request for up to 40,000 additional troops in afghanistan.