the armed forces of turkmenistan (turkmen: türkmenistanyň ýaragly güýçleri) consists of an army, navy, air and air defense forces, border troops, and internal troops, and a national guard. after the fall of the soviet union, significant elements of the soviet armed forces turkestan military district remained on turkmen soil, including several motor rifle divisions. in june 1992, the new russian government signed a bilateral defence treaty with turkmenistan, encouraging the new turkmen government to create its own armed forces but stipulating that they were to be placed under joint command. the library of congress country studies said that 'the treaty on joint measures signed by russia and turkmenistan in july 1992 provided for the russian federation to act as guarantor of turkmenistan's security and made former soviet army units in the republic the basis of the new national armed forces. the treaty stipulated that, apart from border troops and air force and air defense units remaining under russian control, the entire armed forces would be under joint command, which would gradually devolve to exclusive command by turkmenistan over a period of ten years. for a transitional period of five years, russia would provide logistical support and pay turkmenistan for the right to maintain special installations, while turkmenistan would bear the costs of housing, utilities, and administration.' cast's moscow defence brief said that '..in 1992-1993 turkmenistan attempted to create a small national armed force based on the former 52nd army (soviet union), which was located in the country and depended on support from russia. of the 300 formations and units, numbering 110,000 people, 200 were transferred to the command of turkmenistan, 70 remained under russia's jurisdiction, and 30 were either withdrawn or demobilized. in 1994, the chief of staff and first deputy minister of defense was major general annamurat soltanov, a career officer who had served in cuba and afghanistan; another deputy minister of defense, major general begdzhan niyazov, had been a law enforcement administrator prior to his appointment. russian commanders included major general viktor zavarzin, chief of staff and first deputy commander of the separate combined-arms army of turkmenistan, and commander of the separate combined-arms army of turkmenistan and deputy minister of defense lieutenant general nikolai kormiltsev. russian major general vladislav shunevich served together with turkmen major general akmurad kabulov as joint commanders of the border troops in the turkmen border guard. jane's information group said in 2009 that "turkmenistan's military is, even by the standards of central asia, poorly maintained and funded."