born in uniontown, pennsylvania, marshall was a 1901 graduate of the virginia military institute. after serving briefly as commandant of students at the danville military academy in danville, virginia, marshall received his commission as a second lieutenant of infantry in february, 1902. in the years after the spanish-american war, he served in the united states and overseas in positions of increasing rank and responsibility, including platoon leader and company commander in the philippines during the philippine–american war. he was the honor graduate of his infantry-cavalry school course in 1907, and graduated first in his 1908 army staff college class. in 1916 marshall was assigned as aide-de-camp to j. franklin bell, the commander of the western department. after the united states entered world war i, marshall served with bell while bell commanded the department of the east. he was subsequently assigned to the staff of the 1st division, and assisted with the organization's mobilization and training in the united states, as well as planning of its combat operations in france. subsequently assigned to the staff of the american expeditionary forces headquarters, he was a key planner of american operations including the meuse-argonne offensive. after the war, marshall was assigned as an aide-de-camp to john j. pershing, who was then serving as the army's chief of staff. he later served on the army staff, commanded the 15th infantry regiment in china, and was an instructor at the army war college. in 1927, he became assistant commandant of the army's infantry school, where he modernized command and staff processes, which proved to be of major benefit during world war ii. in 1932 and 1933 he commanded fort screven, georgia. marshall commanded 5th brigade, 3rd infantry division and vancouver barracks from 1936 to 1938, and received promotion to brigadier general. during this command, marshall was also responsible for 35 civilian conservation corps (ccc) camps in oregon and southern washington. in july 1938, marshall was assigned to the war plans division on the war department staff, and he was subsequently appointed as the army's deputy chief of staff. when chief of staff malin craig retired in 1939, marshall became acting chief of staff, and then chief of staff. he served as chief of staff until the end of the war in 1945. as chief of staff, marshall organized the largest military expansion in u.s. history, and received promotion to five-star rank as general of the army. marshall coordinated allied operations in europe and the pacific until the end of the war; in addition to being hailed as the organizer of allied victory by winston churchill, time magazine named marshall its man of the year for 1943. marshall retired from active service in 1945, but remained on active duty, a requirement for holders of five-star rank. in late 1945 and early 1946 he served as a special envoy to china in an unsuccessful effort to negotiate a coalition government between the nationalist of chiang kai-shek and communists under mao zedong. as secretary of state from 1947 to 1949, marshall received credit for the marshall plan for europe's post-war rebuilding, the success of which was recognized with award of the 1953 nobel peace prize. after resigning as secretary of state, marshall served as chairman of american battle monuments commission and president of the american national red cross. as secretary of defense at the start of the korean war, marshall worked to restore the military's confidence and morale at the end of its post-world war ii demobilization and then its initial buildup for combat in korea and operations during the cold war. after resigning as defense secretary, marshall retired to his home in virginia. he died in 1959 and was buried at arlington national cemetery.