progressive rock (shortened as prog; sometimes known as art rock, classical rock, or symphonic rock) is a diverse subgenre of rock music that originated in the united kingdom and united states throughout the mid to late 1960s. initially termed "progressive pop", the style was an outgrowth of psychedelic bands who abandoned standard pop traditions in favor of instrumentation and compositional techniques more frequently associated with jazz, folk, or classical music. additional elements contributed to its "progressive" label: lyrics were more poetic, technology was harnessed for new sounds, music approached the condition of "art", and the studio, rather than the stage, became the focus of musical activity, which often involved creating music for listening, not dancing. prog is based on fusions of styles, approaches and genres; involving a continuous move between formalism and eclecticism. due to its historical reception, prog's scope is sometimes limited to a stereotype of long solos, overlong albums, fantasy lyrics, grandiose stage sets and costumes, and an obsessive dedication to technical skill. while the genre is often cited for its merging of high culture and low culture, few artists incorporated literal classical themes in their work to any great degree, and only a handful of groups purposely emulated or referenced classical music. the genre saw a high level of popularity throughout the 1970s, especially in the middle of the decade, but faded soon after. conventional wisdom holds that the rise of punk rock caused this, although in reality a number of factors contributed to the decline. music critics, who often labeled the concepts as "pretentious" and the sounds as "pompous" and "overblown," tended to be hostile toward the genre or to completely ignore it. some bands achieved commercial success well into the 1980s, albeit with changed lineups and more compact song structures. proto-prog is the advanced music that slightly predates the post-1969 prog era. in 1967, "progressive rock" constituted a a diversity of loosely associated style codes. the canterbury scene, originating in the late 1960s, denoted a subset of prog bands who emphasized the use of wind instruments, complex chord changes and long improvisations. rock in opposition, from the late 1970s, was more avant-garde, and when combined with the canterbury style, created avant-prog. after the 1970s, the term "progressive rock" came to represent a non-exploratory genre, in other words, a set of conventions to be repeated and imitated, and thus ceased to be "progressive". post-progressive feeds a more explicit return to prog, drawing upon newer developments in popular music and the avant-garde since the mid 1970s.