the bto (brenda tissue ontology) represents a comprehensive structured encyclopedia. it provides terms, classifications, and definitions of tissues, organs, anatomical structures, plant parts, cell cultures, cell types, and cell lines of organisms from all taxonomic groups (animals, plants, fungis, protozoon) as enzyme sources. the information is connected to the functional data in the brenda („braunschweig enzyme database“) enzyme information system. the bto is one of the first tissue-specific ontologies in life sciences, not restricted to a specific organism or a specific organism group providing a user-friendly access to the wide range of tissue and cell-type information. databases, such as ontology lookup service or ses, such as miriam registry or of the ebi-embl, the tissuedistributiondb, including the tissue synonym library of the german cancer research center (dkfz) in heidelberg or the bioportal plattform of the national center for biomedical ontology (stanford, usa) rely on the bto and implement the encyclopedia as an essential repository of information into their respective plattform. the bto enables users from medical research and pharmaceutical sciences to search for the occurrence and histological detection of disease-related enzymes in tissues, which play an important role in diagnosis, therapies, and drug development. in biochemistry and biotechnology the organism-specific tissue terms linked to enzyme functional data are an important resource for the understanding of the metabolism and regulation in life sciences. ontologies represent classification systems that provide controlled and structured vocabularies. they are important tools to illustrate and to link evolutionary correlations. the development of the bto started in 2003 with the aim to connect the biochemical and molecular biological enzyme data of brenda with a hierarchical and standardized collection of tissue-specific terms. the functional enzyme data and information in brenda have been manually annotated and structured by experts from biochemistry, biology, and chemistry. presently (august 2014) the bto contains 5,500 terms, linked to 4,000 synonyms and 4,500 definitions. the terms are classified under generic categories, rules, and formats of the gene ontology consortium (go,), organized as a directed acylic graph (dag) and created using the open source obo-edit. all terms from each level are directly connected the enzyme data in brenda. the bto is a suitable tool to distinguish between different enzymes which are expressed in a tissue-specific manner.