communication for social change, referred to as communication for sustainable social change and development, involves the use of variety of communication techniques to address inefficient systems, processes, or modes of production within a specific location that has not incurred major technological advances. different mediums and approaches are used to help individuals among the targeted society to acquire new knowledge and skills. this will allow communities not only to experience change but to guide it as well. a possible strategy in achieving sustainability and development places the people of the community in the center of the communication process. this technique is also known as the participatory approach where interpersonal communication is exercised through community media. the members of the culture are agents of change as opposed to the outsiders who may provide any necessary tools. technology then becomes implemented by people in their social and economic contexts and results in a major shaping process. the participatory approach can be combined with three other types of communicative methods to effectively invoke social change. these include: behavior change communication, mass communication, and advocacy communication. different types of mediums can be used in achieving governance, health and sustainable development. old media can be combined with new media to educate specific populations. information and communication technologies (ict’s) in addition to multi-media are able to address visual, auditory and kinesthetic learners and prove to be an important contribution to economic growth. questions need to be raised about who the stake holders, policy makers, partners and practitioners are and what their goals might be for the community seeking sustainable development. oftentimes, those who set the agenda are the ones doing the funding for the project and may include international agencies, bilateral agencies, national authorities, ngos, and local organizations. prior to the project, decision makers consider if introducing new technology will disrupt religion, language, political organization, economy, familial relations and social complexity of the targeted society. other factors have to be acknowledged as well and may include already present policies and legislations, educational systems, service provisions, institutional and organizational constructions (in the forms of corruption, bureaucracy, etc.), socio-demographic and economic aspects, and the physical environment.