larry jay levine (born july 1, 1961) is an american federal prison consultant. in april 2007, larry levine founded american prison consultants, a legal services firm that provides information and federal criminal litigation assistance to lawyers, and offenders going through criminal proceedings in u.s. district court, who are about to enter the federal prison system. american prison consultants also operates under the synonymous name of wall street prison consultants. levine's consulting program is centered on the trademarked "fedtime 101" prison survival educational course. on august 3, 1998, levine was arrested in northridge, california, by a u.s. department of justice fbi-dea-atf federal organized crime task force, and was convicted in december 1999, on conspiracy charges relating to narcotics trafficking, securities fraud, obstruction of justice, racketeering, and possession of automatic weapons. according to federal law enforcement sources, levine operated as an efficiency expert in california and nevada allegedly directing criminal operations for an east coast organized crime family. on may 8, 2000, levine was sentenced to ten years in federal prison by former u.s. district judge carlos r. moreno who is now a retired justice of the supreme court of california. in 2005, levine was incarcerated at the former nellis federal prison camp on nellis air force base outside of las vegas, nevada, and upon its closure was transferred along with several hundred other nellis inmates to the gang infested higher security la tuna federal prison on the el paso, texas-mexican border. while at la tuna, levine single-handedly, pursuant to 28 usc ยง 2241, filed a federal class action habeas corpus lawsuit in u.s. district court against the u.s. department of justice and federal bureau of prisons claiming that the doj had violated its own policies by sending the nellis inmates into higher custody. due to levine's actions, the doj was forced to act and subsequently shifted hundreds of its inmates around the country to conform to the lawsuit's claims. while in custody, levine served time in 11 different federal correctional institutions in california, arizona, texas, nevada, and oklahoma, where he self-educated himself in federal criminal law, and upon release in 2007, became a renowned international expert on the u.s. federal criminal justice system. levine's advise, views, and comments, frequently appear in wire service news reports, tv, broadcast radio, magazine, and newspaper articles worldwide. since the bernard madoff scandal, he has become a popular interview subject on cnn, fox news channel, cbs news, abc news, msnbc, bloomberg and others and hosts a weekly radio show on la talk radio with retired federal bureau of prison official bruce cameron called "crime and punishment". in march 2012, levine provided commentary to several news organizations on what former illinois governor blagojevich would face upon entering federal custody. and in october 2012, levine appeared on the abc news show good morning america, discussing what prison life might be like for convicted pennsylvania football coach jerry sandusky after he was convicted on multiple charges of sexually abusing several children over a 20-year plus period. in july 2009, levine was issued a cease and desist order by the new york stock exchange (nyse) for copyright and trademark infringements due to levine's use of images of the nyse and references to the nyse and crime on the wall street prison consultants website. levine currently resides in the metropolitan los angeles, california area.