the lord mayor of london is the city of london's mayor and leader of the city of london corporation. within the city, the lord mayor is accorded precedence over all individuals except the sovereign and retains various traditional powers, rights and privileges, including the title and style the right honourable lord mayor of london. this office differs from the mayor of london, which is a popularly elected position and covers the much larger greater london area. in 2006 the corporation of london changed its name to the city of london corporation, when the title lord mayor of the city of london was reintroduced, partly to avoid confusion with the mayor of london. however, the legal and commonly used title remains lord mayor of london. the lord mayor is elected at common hall each year on michaelmas, and takes office on the friday before the second saturday in november, at the silent ceremony. the lord mayor's show is held on the day after taking office; the lord mayor, preceded by a procession, travels to the royal courts of justice at the strand to swear allegiance to the sovereign before the justices of the high court. one of the world's oldest continuously elected civic offices, the lord mayor's main role nowadays is to represent, support and promote the businesses and residents in the city of london. today, these businesses are mostly in the financial sector and the lord mayor is regarded as the champion of the entire uk-based financial sector regardless of ownership or location throughout the country. as leader of the corporation of the city of london, the lord mayor serves as the key spokesman for the local authority and also has important ceremonial and social responsibilities. all lord mayors of london are apolitical. the lord mayor of london typically delivers dozens of speeches and addresses per year, and attends many receptions and other events in london and beyond. many incumbents of the office make overseas visits while lord mayor of london. the lord mayor, also ex-officio rector of london's city, university of london and also admiral of the port of london, is assisted in day-to-day administration by the mansion house staff who are senior administrative personnel in the corporation of london and whose titles include the town clerk and chief executive to chamberlain and remembrancer. the present lord mayor is the lord mountevans (for 2015–16).