ruhuna cricket team was one of the five provincial cricket teams that took part in sri lankan inter-provincial tournament, representing southern province. the ruhuna cricket team was based in galle. it drew cricketers from sri lanka premier trophy. team colors were red and blue. ruhuna cricket team took part in all three provincial tournaments: the first-class cricket competition known as the inter-provincial first class tournament, the list a competition known as the inter-provincial limited over tournament and the twenty20 competition known as the inter-provincial twenty20. ruhuna cricket team had participated every tournament since the inauguration of the tournament since 1990. despite the team having been represented by many formidable international, national cricketers the team still to win a title in the inter-provincial tournament. ruhuna was beaten by wayamba cricket team in 2007/08 inter-provincial twenty20 by 31 runs in the finals, the only time the team was qualified for a final of the tournament. they however won the 2011 inter-provincial twenty20 (by defeating wayamba wolves in the final), its first title that led to its qualification for the 2011 champions league twenty20 qualifying rounds. ruhuna rhinos will play the qualifying round in champions league twenty20 in 2011 under the captaincy of mahela udawatte. in the qualifying round, they managed a 4-run win over the leicestershire foxes, but they missed out on the tournament proper to indian franchise kolkata knight riders on net run rate. in the 2009 inter-provincial tournament even though ruhuna's upul tharanga scored his maiden first-class double century, it was not sufficient to them qualify for the semi finals. basnahira south defeat ruhuna by 4 wickets. in the 2009 inter-provincial twenty20 tournament's second semi-finals, wayamba cricket team beat the ruhuna in the bowl-out to reach the finals, after the match was affected by rain. eventually wayamba went on to win the title, becoming the first team won the title twice.