the acadians (french: acadiens, ipa: [akadjɛ̃]) are the descendants of french colonists who settled in acadia during the 17th and 18th centuries, some of whom are also métis. the colony was located in what is now eastern canada's maritime provinces (nova scotia, new brunswick, and prince edward island), as well as part of quebec, and present-day maine to the kennebec river. although today most of the acadians and québécois are french-speaking (francophone) canadians, acadia was a distinctly separate colony of new france. it was geographically and administratively separate from the french colony of canada (modern-day quebec). as a result, the acadians and québécois developed two distinct histories and cultures. they also developed a slightly different french language. france has one official language and to accomplish this they have an administration in charge of the language. since the acadians were separated from this council, their french language evolved independently, and acadians retain several elements of 17th-century french that have been lost in france. the settlers whose descendants became acadians came from many areas in france, but especially regions such as île-de-france, normandy, brittany, poitou and aquitaine. acadian family names have come from many areas in france. for example, the maillets are from paris; the leblancs of normandy; the surname melanson is from brittany, and those with the surname bastarache and basque came from the basque country. the acadians lived for almost 80 years in acadia, prior to the british conquest of acadia in 1710. after the conquest, they refused to sign an unconditional oath for the next forty-five years. during the french and indian war (the north american theatre of the seven years' war), british colonial officers suspected they were aiding the french. the british, together with new england legislators and militia, carried out the great expulsion of 1755–1764 during and after the war years. they deported approximately 11,500 acadians from the maritime region. approximately one-third perished from disease and drowning. although one historian compared this event to contemporary ethnic cleansing, other historians suggested that the event is comparable with other deportations in history. many acadians migrated to present day louisiana state (known then as spanish colonial luisiana), where they developed what became known as cajun culture. others were transported to france. some of those were settled secondarily to louisiana by henri peyroux de la coudreniere. later on, many acadians returned to the maritime provinces of canada, most specifically new brunswick. most who returned ended up in new brunswick because they were barred by the british from resettling their lands and villages in the land that became nova scotia. before the us revolutionary war, the crown settled new england planters in former acadian communities and farmland as well as, after the war, loyalists (including nearly 3,000 black loyalists, who were freed slaves). british policy was to assimilate acadians with the local populations where they resettled. acadians speak a dialect of french called acadian french. many of those in the moncton, new brunswick, area speak chiac and english. the louisiana cajun descendants speak a dialect of american english called cajun english, with several also speaking cajun french, a close relative of the original dialect from canada influenced by spanish and west african languages.