cabbage or headed cabbage (comprising several cultivars of brassica oleracea) is a leafy green or purple biennial plant, grown as an annual vegetable crop for its dense-leaved heads. it is descended from the wild cabbage, b. oleracea var. oleracea, and is closely related to broccoli and cauliflower (var. botrytis), brussels sprouts (var. gemmifera) and savoy cabbage (var. sabauda). cabbage heads generally range from 0.5 to 4 kilograms (1 to 9 lb), and can be green, purple and white. smooth-leafed firm-headed green cabbages are the most common, with smooth-leafed red and crinkle-leafed savoy cabbages of both colors seen more rarely. it is a multi-layered vegetable. under conditions of long sunlit days such as are found at high northern latitudes in summer, cabbages can grow much larger. some records are discussed at the end of the history section. it is difficult to trace the exact history of cabbage, but it was most likely domesticated somewhere in europe before 1000 bc, although savoys were not developed until the 16th century. by the middle ages, it had become a prominent part of european cuisine. cabbage heads are generally picked during the first year of the plant's life cycle, but plants intended for seed are allowed to grow a second year, and must be kept separated from other cole crops to prevent cross-pollination. cabbage is prone to several nutrient deficiencies, as well as to multiple pests, and bacterial and fungal diseases. the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) reports that world production of cabbage and other brassicas for 2011 was almost 69 million metric tons (68 million long tons; 75 million short tons). almost half of these crops were grown in china, where chinese cabbage is the most popular brassica vegetable. cabbages are prepared in many different ways for eating. they can be pickled, fermented for dishes such as sauerkraut, steamed, stewed, sautéed, braised, or eaten raw. cabbage is a good source of vitamin k, vitamin c and dietary fiber. contaminated cabbage has been linked to cases of food-borne illness in humans.