the chinese civil war was a civil war in china fought between forces loyal to the kuomintang (kmt)-led government of the republic of china, and forces loyal to the communist party of china (cpc). the war began in august 1927, with generalissimo chiang kai-shek's northern expedition, and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950. the conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the republic of china (roc) in taiwan and the people's republic of china (prc) in mainland china, both officially claiming to be the legitimate government of china. the war represented an ideological split between the communist cpc and the kmt's brand of nationalism. it continued intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties came together to form the second united front to counter a japanese invasion and prevent the country from adding to an earlier invasion into manchuria in 1931. china's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a year after the end of hostilities with japan. four years later came the cessation of major military hostilities, with the newly founded people's republic of china controlling mainland china (including hainan) and the republic of china's jurisdiction being restricted to taiwan, penghu, quemoy, matsu and several outlying islands. to this day no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed, and there is debate about whether the civil war has legally ended. cross-strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure, particularly over taiwan's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a "one-china policy." the prc still actively claims taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the roc with a military invasion if the roc officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the "republic of taiwan". the roc mutually claims mainland china, and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition. today the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-strait relations; however, the two separate de facto states have close economic ties.