the b-series are a family of inline four-cylinder dohc automotive engines introduced by honda in 1989. sold concurrently with the d-series which were primarily sohc engines designed for more economical applications, the b-series were aimed more as a performance option featuring dual-overhead cams along with the first application of honda's vtec system (available in some models). to identify a honda b-series engine, the letter b is normally followed by two numbers to designate the displacement of the engine, another letter, and in us-spec engines, another number. the japanese spec-engines are normally designated with a four character alphanumeric designation. the b-series, the b20b variant in particular, is not to be confused with the earlier honda b20a engine introduced in 1985 and primarily available in the prelude and accord-derived vehicles from 1985-1991. while sharing some design elements and both being multivalve honda four-cylinders, the b-series and b20a differ substantially in architecture, enough to be considered distinct engine families. they were made in 1.6-, 1.7-, 1.8-, and 2.0-liter variants, with and without vtec (variable valve timing and lift electronic control). later models have minor upgrades including modifications to the intake valves and ports and piston tops, along with individual cylinder oil injectors (b18c models). they produce between 120 hp (89 kw) and 200 hp (149 kw), with some models capable of a redline over 8,500 rpm. although it has so many variations, the basic design differs very little among the b-series. there are actually two short blocks which are used for the entire series. the main difference between them was the deck height. the one used for b16 and b17 engines (except for b16b) has a deck height of 203.9mm while the short block used for b16b, b18 and b20 engines has a deck height of 212mm. the honda b16 has appeared in six different forms over the years. the honda b-series was replaced by the k-series in civic, integra, and cr-v applications.