selman munson & lerner, p.c. is a business transaction law firm. the firm concentrates in mergers & acquisitions, business restructuring, environmental, real estate, financial institutions, wireless and internet technology, intellectual property, employment, tax, corporate securities, oilfield services, international transactions and business law. the firm is known for its skill in mergers and acquisitions. the firm has represented a wide range of clients in m&a transactions, including oilfield service businesses, wind energy enterprises, recycling companies, food processors, financial institutions, insurance companies, advertising agencies, software and technology firms, energy companies, and securities and investment advisory firms. these transactions involve both domestic companies and those domiciled in europe, asia, africa and elsewhere. the firm was founded in 1996 to provide business transaction services to small and medium sized enterprises in texas, including the sale of their businesses. its initial focus was on helping clients raise equity financing for growing technology, manufacturing and service businesses. much of the firm’s early engagements involved representing deal-intensive companies and entrepreneurs and the private equity and investment banking firms that financed them. attorneys at the firm concentrated much of their practice on helping technology companies get started, find financing and structure and grow their businesses. to that end, securities attorneys at the firm represented a number of companies and their underwriters in initial public offerings and private placements. as the firm grew, it added attorneys with different specializations, including tax, employee benefits, banking, healthcare, intellectual property, real estate, environmental, oilfield and international transactions. today, the firm continues its focus on representing deal-intensive companies who buy and sell businesses. selman munson & lerner focuses on middle market mergers and acquisitions. in the first half of 2015, the dominant industries for these transactions were in real estate (17%), financials (12.7%)and healthcare (12%). deals under $50 million usd were dominated by industrials (15%), high technology (13.3%) and real estate (11.2%).