the pga tour of australasia, currently known for sponsorship reasons as the isps handa pga tour of australasia, is a professional golf tour for men. official events on the tour count for world golf ranking points. the tour was formed in 1973 as the pga tour of australia and adopted its current name in 1991. most of the leading players on the tour are australian, with a smaller domestic contingent from new zealand, but players from many other countries all over the world also participate. the very best australasian players devote most of their time to the pga tour or the european tour, typically returning home for two or three events each year or even not at all. therefore, the australasian tour is a feeder for the larger tours. some of the leading events are co-sanctioned by the european tour in order to encourage higher ranked players to enter and to attract more sponsorship. players with a background on the tour who have reached the world top 20 since the turn of the millennium include steve elkington and adam scott. the leading tournaments on the tour include the australian open, the australian pga championship, the australian masters and the new zealand open. the pga tour of australasia's development tour was the von nida tour (named after australian golfer norman von nida) which featured around ten events with purses in the region of a$100,000 each. the main tour events took place in the southern hemisphere summer, that is late one calendar year and early the next, while the von nida tour events mainly took place in the local spring and autumn. however the money list was calculated for calendar years. from 2009, the von nida tour has been merged into the pga tour of australasia tour. in november 2005 it was reported by the bbc that the tour was going through difficult times, with the schedule for the 2005/06 summer season reduced to six events, three of them co-sponsored by other tours. the heineken classic, which was the richest event in australasia in 2005, was cancelled in 2006 due to the withdrawal of the sponsor. one factor in the tour's problems is the rise of the nearby asian tour. tour chairman wayne grady, and player mark hensby both accused australia's biggest golf icon greg norman, who is a u.s. resident, of not doing enough to support the tour. norman dismissed their comments. to earn a pga tour of australasia card, one must place in the top 40 of the tour's qualifying school. to retain a tour card, a golfer must finish in the top 60 of the order of merit. golfers ranked 61st-75th are given conditional status and those ranked 61st to 100th are given entry to the final stage of q school. those outside the top 100 lose their tour cards unless exempt by other means, such as top twenty on the career money list. a win earns a two-year exemption for most events. events considered tier 1 are given three-year exemptions. five-year exemptions are given to order of merit winners and the tour's three largest events (australian pga championship, australian open, and australian masters). entry to the open championship is given to the order of merit winner, with the top three non-exempt players from the australian open earning entry to the open championship.