figure skating jumps are an element of three competitive figure skating disciplines — men's singles, ladies' singles, and pair skating but not ice dancing. different jumps are identified by the take-off edge and the number of revolutions completed. there are six kinds of jumps currently counted as jump elements in isu regulations. three are edge jumps — the salchow, loop, and axel — and three are toe jumps which use the toe picks on the front of the blade — the toe loop, flip, and lutz. the axel is the most difficult due to an extra half rotation. each jump receives a score according to its base value and grade of execution (goe). the goe ranges from +3 to −3 and is weighted according to the jump's base value. quality of execution, technique, height, speed, flow and ice coverage are considered by the judges. an under-rotated jump (indicated by < ) is "missing rotation of more than ¼, but less than ½ revolution" and receives 70% of the base value. a downgraded jump (indicated by <<) is "missing rotation of ½ revolution or more". a triple which is downgraded is treated as a double, while a downgraded double is treated as a single jump. the isu defines a fall as a loss of control with the result that the majority of the skater's body weight is not on the blade but supported by hands, knees, or buttocks. an edge violation occurs when a skater executes a jump on the incorrect edge. the hollow is a groove on the bottom of the blade which creates two distinct edges, inside and outside. the inside edge of the blade is closest to the center of the body, on the arch-side of the foot. the outside edge is on the outer edge of the foot. a flat refers to skating on both edges at the same time, which is discouraged. an unclear edge or edge violation is indicated with an 'e' and reflected in the goe according to the severity of the problem. flutz and lip are the colloquial terms for a lutz and a flip jump with an edge violation, respectively. in 1982, the international skating union enacted a rule stating that a skater may perform each type of triple only once, or twice if one of them is incorporated into a combination or sequence. for a set of jumps to be considered a combination, each jump must take off from the landing edge of the previous jump, with no steps, turns, or change of edge in between jumps. toe loops and loops are commonly performed as the second or third jump in a combination because they take off from the right back outside edge. to perform a salchow or flip on the back end of a combination, a half loop (which is actually a full rotation, but lands on a left back inside edge) may be used as a connecting jump. in contrast, jump sequences are sets of jumps which may be linked by non-listed jumps or hops. sequences are worth 80% of what the same jumps executed in combination would be worth. jumps may be rotated in clockwise or counter-clockwise direction. most skaters are counter-clockwise jumpers.