oliver wolf sacks, cbe, frcp (9 july 1933 – 30 august 2015) was a british neurologist, naturalist and author who spent his professional life in the united states. he believed that the brain is the "most incredible thing in the universe" and therefore important to study. he became widely known for writing best-selling case histories about his patients' disorders, with some of his books adapted for stage and film. after sacks received his medical degree from the queen's college, oxford in 1960, he interned at middlesex hospital (part of university college, london) before moving to the u.s. he then interned at mount zion hospital in san francisco and completed his residency in neurology and neuropathology at the university of california, los angeles (ucla). he relocated to new york in 1965, where he first worked under a paid fellowship in neurochemistry and neuropathology at the albert einstein college of medicine. upon realising that the neuro-research career he envisioned for himself would be a poor fit, in 1966 he began serving as neurologist at beth abraham hospital's chronic-care facility in the bronx. while there, he worked with a group of survivors of the 1920s sleeping sickness encephalitis lethargica, who had been unable to move on their own for decades. his treatment of those patients became the basis of his book awakenings. in the period from 1966 to 1991 he was a neurological consultant to various new york city nursing homes, hospitals, and at the bronx psychiatric center. sacks was the author of numerous best-selling books, mostly collections of case studies of people with neurological disorders. his writings have been featured in a wide range of media; the new york times called him a "poet laureate of contemporary medicine", and "one of the great clinical writers of the 20th century". his books include a wealth of narrative detail about his experiences with patients, and how they coped with their conditions, often illuminating how the normal brain deals with perception, memory and individuality. awakenings (1973) was adapted into an academy award-nominated film in 1990, starring robin williams and robert de niro. he and his book musicophilia: tales of music and the brain were the subject of "musical minds", an episode of the pbs series nova. sacks was awarded a cbe for services to literature in the queen's birthday honours of 2008.