solder (/ˈsoʊldər/, /ˈsɒldər/ or in north america /ˈsɒdər/) is a fusible metal alloy used to create a permanent bond between metal workpieces. the word solder comes from the middle english word soudur, via old french solduree and soulder, from the latin solidare, meaning "to make solid". in fact, solder must be melted in order to adhere to and connect the pieces together, so a suitable alloy for use as solder will have a lower melting point than the pieces it is intended to join. whenever possible, the solder should also be resistant to oxidative and corrosive effects that would degrade the joint over time. solders intended for use in making electrical connections between electronic components also usually have favorable electrical characteristics. soft solder typically has a melting point range of 90 to 450 °c (190 to 840 °f; 360 to 720 k), and is commonly used in electronics, plumbing, and sheet metal work. manual soldering uses a soldering iron or soldering gun. alloys that melt between 180 and 190 °c (360 and 370 °f; 450 and 460 k) are the most commonly used. soldering performed using alloys with a melting point above 450 °c (840 °f; 720 k) is called 'hard soldering', 'silver soldering', or brazing. in specific proportions, some alloys can become eutectic — that is, their melting point is the same as their freezing point. non-eutectic alloys have markedly different solidus and liquidus temperatures, and within that range they exist as a paste of solid particles in a melt of the lower-melting phase. in electrical work, if the joint is disturbed in the pasty state before it has solidified totally, a poor electrical connection may result; use of eutectic solder reduces this problem. the pasty state of a non-eutectic solder can be exploited in plumbing as it allows molding of the solder during cooling, e.g. for ensuring watertight joint of pipes, resulting in a so-called 'wiped joint'. for electrical and electronics work, solder wire is available in a range of thicknesses for hand-soldering, and with cores containing flux. it is also available as a paste or as a preformed foil shaped to match the workpiece, more suitable for mechanized mass-production. alloys of lead and tin were commonly used in the past, and are still available; they are particularly convenient for hand-soldering.  have been increasing in use due to regulatory requirements plus the health and environmental benefits of avoiding lead-based electronic components. they are almost exclusively used today in consumer electronics. plumbers often use bars of solder, much thicker than the wire used for electrical applications. jewelers often use solder in thin sheets, which they cut into snippets.