haifa (hebrew: חֵיפָה hefa [χei̯ˈfa, ˈχai̯fa]; arabic: حيفا‎‎ hayfa), the third-largest city in the state of israel, has a population of over 277,082. another 300,000 people live in towns directly adjacent to the city including daliyat al-karmel, the krayot, nesher, tirat carmel, and some kibbutzim. together these areas form a contiguous urban area, home to nearly 600,000 residents, which makes up the inner core of the haifa metropolitan area, the second- or third-most populous metropolitan area in israel. it is also home to the bahá'í world centre, a unesco world heritage site and a destination for baha'i pilgrims. built on the slopes of mount carmel, the settlement has a history spanning more than 3,000 years. the earliest known settlement in the vicinity was tell abu hawam, a small port city established in the late bronze age (14th century bce). in the 3rd century ce, haifa was known as a dye-making center. over the centuries, the city has changed hands: being conquered and ruled by the phoenicians, persians, hasmoneans, romans, byzantines, arabs, crusaders, ottomans, british, and the israelis. since the establishment of the state of israel in 1948, the haifa municipality has governed the city. as of 2016, the city is a major seaport located on israel's mediterranean coastline in the bay of haifa covering 63.7 square kilometres (24.6 sq mi). it lies about 90 kilometres (56 mi) north of tel aviv and is the major regional center of northern israel. two respected academic institutions, the university of haifa and the technion, are located in haifa, in addition to the largest k-12 school in israel, the hebrew reali school. the city plays an important role in israel's economy. it is home to matam, one of the oldest and largest high-tech parks in the country; haifa also owns the only underground rapid transit system located in israel, known as the carmelit. haifa bay is a center of heavy industry, petroleum refining and chemical processing. haifa formerly functioned as the western terminus of an oil pipeline from iraq via jordan.