harry maclean (born 12 december 1951 in edinburgh, scotland) is a former motorcycle speedway rider in national league (speedway). rode indoor speedway, which had a mini league in scotland in the winter of 1972/3 with venues at edinburgh, kirkcaldy (who maclean rode for), ayr and aviemore. over his career, he rode for many clubs, a result of tracks closing or promoters changing clubs. at the end of 1974 he was contracted to long eaton speedway and when that closed during the winter that year, the promoters joined up with the promoter at stoke potters. this resulted in a glut of riders and harry was loaned to coatbridge and teesside. at the end of 1975, harry bastable and tony allsopp, promoters at stoke, moved the licence to oxford for 1976, filling the void left by the move of oxford rebels to white city stadium. 1976 saw maclean missing a lot of matches through injury and not getting rides, so he asked to be transferred, being taken in by teesside tigers for the 1977 season. when that season finished, ron wilson, teesside's promoter, took maclean to milton keynes, a new track. the end of 1979 saw a swap deal agreed, with maclean going to edinburgh monarchs and bert harkins going to milton keynes knights. maclean retired from speedway in 1983. since retirement from speedway, he worked as an accountant (never qualified, but had been doing accounts, even while riding), helping other riders in particular with their tax returns. returning to scotland, he worked in an accountant’s office for a couple of years then invested in an engineering company. when that business was sold, went into the window cleaning business. he took up golf at age of 37, winning loads of competitions including the club senior championship. including the annual speedway riders cup three times, held at john harrhy's golf course - the west midland golf club.a qualified scuba diver to the level of padi advanced, diving all over the world. lives in gullane, his home for twenty eight years. is married to brenda and they have two children, a girl and boy.