final fantasy vi (ファイナルファンタジーvi fainaru fantajī shikkusu, also known as final fantasy iii for its initial north american release) is a role-playing video game developed and published by square for the super nintendo entertainment system. released in 1994, it is the sixth title in the mainline final fantasy series. set in a fantasy world with a technology level equivalent to that of the second industrial revolution, the game's story focuses on a group of rebels as they seek to overthrow an imperial dictatorship. the game features fourteen permanent playable characters, the most of any game in the main series. it was ported by tose with minor differences to sony's playstation in 1999 and nintendo's game boy advance in 2006, and it was released for the wii's virtual console in 2011. the game was known as final fantasy iii when it was first released in north america, as the original final fantasy ii, final fantasy iii, and final fantasy v had not been released outside japan at the time (leaving iv as the second title released outside japan and vi as the third). however, most later localizations used the original title. final fantasy vi was the first game in the series to be directed by someone other than producer and series creator hironobu sakaguchi; the role was filled instead by yoshinori kitase and hiroyuki ito. yoshitaka amano, a long-time contributor to the final fantasy series, returned as the image and character designer, while regular composer nobuo uematsu wrote the game's score, which has been released on several soundtrack albums. final fantasy vi was released to critical acclaim and is seen as a landmark title for the role-playing genre; for instance, it was ranked as the number one rpg of all time by ign. its super nes and playstation versions have sold over 3.48 million copies worldwide to date as a stand-alone game, as well as over 750,000 copies as part of the japanese final fantasy collection and the north american final fantasy anthology. final fantasy vi has won numerous awards.