an endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the firmicute phylum. the name "endospore" is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.e., not an offspring). it is a stripped-down, dormant form to which the bacterium can reduce itself. endospore formation is usually triggered by a lack of nutrients, and usually occurs in gram-positive bacteria. in endospore formation, the bacterium divides within its cell wall. one side then engulfs the other. endospores enable bacteria to lie dormant for extended periods, even centuries. revival of spores millions of years old has been claimed. when the environment becomes more favorable, the endospore can reactivate itself to the vegetative state. most types of bacteria cannot change to the endospore form. examples of bacteria that can form endospores include bacillus and clostridium. the endospore consists of the bacterium's dna, ribosomes and large amounts of dipicolinic acid. dipicolinic acid is a spore-specific chemical that appears to help in the ability for endospores to maintain dormancy. this chemical comprises up to 10% of the spore's dry weight. endospores can survive without nutrients. they are resistant to ultraviolet radiation, desiccation, high temperature, extreme freezing and chemical disinfectants. thermo-resistant endospores were first hypothesized by ferdinand cohn after studying bacillus subtilis (pictured to the right) growth on cheese after boiling the cheese. his notion of spores being the reproductive mechanism for the growth was a large blow to the previous suggestions of spontaneous generation. astrophysicist steinn sigurdsson said "there are viable bacterial spores that have been found that are 40 million years old on earth – and we know they're very hardened to radiation." common anti-bacterial agents that work by destroying vegetative cell walls do not affect endospores. endospores are commonly found in soil and water, where they may survive for long periods of time. a variety of different microorganisms form "spores" or "cysts," but the endospores of low g+c gram-positive bacteria are by far the most resistant to harsh conditions. some classes of bacteria can turn into exospores, also known as microbial cysts, instead of endospores. exospores and endospores are two kinds of "hibernating" or dormant stages seen in some classes of microorganisms.