lennox claudius lewis, cm, cbe (born 2 september 1965) is a former professional boxer who competed from 1989 to 2003. he is a three-time heavyweight world champion, having also held the lineal championship, and remains the last undisputed heavyweight champion. lewis holds dual british and canadian citizenship; as an amateur he represented canada at the 1988 olympics, winning a gold medal in the super-heavyweight division after defeating future world champion riddick bowe in the final. in his first three years as a professional, lewis would win several regional championships, including the european, british, and commonwealth heavyweight titles. after winning his first 21 fights, he defeated donovan ruddock in 1992 to take over the number one position in the wbc rankings. the following year, lewis was awarded the wbc title due to archrival riddick bowe refusing to fight him. three defences of the title were made before an upset knockout loss to oliver mccall in 1994. lewis avenged the loss in a 1997 rematch to win back the now-vacant wbc title. a further four defences were made, during which lewis won the lineal championship by defeating shannon briggs in 1998. two fights against evander holyfield in 1999 (the first of which ended in a controversial draw) saw lewis become undisputed heavyweight champion by unifying his wbc title with holyfield's wba and ibf titles, as well as the vacant ibo title. in 2000, the wba stripped lewis of their title when he opted to face michael grant instead of mandatory challenger john ruiz. similarly, lewis was forced to vacate the ibf title in 2002 after refusing to face mandatory challenger chris byrd. another upset occurred in 2001 when lewis was knocked out by hasim rahman, but this defeat was again avenged later in the year. in 2002, lewis defeated mike tyson in one of the most highly anticipated fights in boxing history. prior to the event, lewis was awarded the ring magazine heavyweight title, which had been vacant since the late 1980s and was last held by tyson. in what would be his final fight, in 2003, lewis defeated vitali klitschko in a brutal, bloody encounter. he would vacate his remaining titles and retire from boxing in 2004. lewis often referred to himself as "the pugilist specialist." during his boxing prime he was 196 cm (6 feet 5 inches) tall, with a 211 cm (84 inch) reach, and weighed about 111 kg (245 lb). he is regarded by many as one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time, and also one of the greatest british fighters of all time. in 1999 he was named fighter of the year by the boxing writers association of america, and bbc sports personality of the year.