davis island is a large island located in the mississippi river. it lies mostly in warren county in the state of mississippi but is also partly in madison parish, in the state of louisiana. it is located about 20 miles southwest of vicksburg, mississippi, usa. the island is approximately 30,000 acres (120 km2) in size depending on the level of the mississippi river. it was formerly a peninsula known as davis bend, with an eleven-thousand acre area of rich bottomlands, bounded on three sides by the mississippi river. before the american civil war, joseph davis developed his hurricane plantation for cotton production on the peninsula. he worked to develop a model slave community, providing more autonomy to his slaves, for instance allowing them to keep a certain portion of monies they earned. he bought the land in 1818. he gave the adjoining property of brierfield plantation to his much younger brother jefferson davis, helping him get started in the 1830s. jefferson davis later was elected as the president of the confederate states of america. the peninsula was separated from the mainland by a shift in the river in march 1867, after which it was an island accessible only by water. after the war, davis provided a mortgage to ben montgomery, his former slave who had managed his plantation, and other freedmen to acquire both plantations. they operated them for several years, but declining cotton prices, economic hard times in the financial panic, and the repeated flooding caused failure. montgomery descendants and others moved off the island to higher ground. in 1878 jefferson davis regained possession of his brierfield plantation from the heirs of his brother. he never lived at the plantation again; both he and other davis family members leased the properties to tenant farmers. following the great mississippi flood of 1927, which inundated nearly 30,000 square miles, the us army corps of engineers raised the height of the levees to try to prevent such damage in the future. this had the unintended consequence of increasing the severity of flooding of the island. it has been under water more than once. the davis family finally sold the properties in 1953, and the private brierfield hunting club has controlled most of the island since then. access is only by water.