the hopi are a native american tribe, who primarily live on the 2,531.773 sq mi (6,557.26 km2) hopi reservation in northeastern arizona. as of 2010, there were 19,327 hopi in the united states, according to the 2010 census. the hopi language is one of the 30 of the uto-aztecan language family. the majority of hopi people are enrolled in the hopi tribe of arizona but some are enrolled in the colorado river indian tribes. when first encountered by the spanish in the 16th century, the hopi and the surrounding cultures were referred to as pueblo people, because they lived in villages (pueblos in the spanish language). the hopi are descended from the ancient pueblo peoples (hopi: hisatsinom or navajo: anasazi) who constructed large apartment-house complexes in northeastern arizona, northwestern new mexico, and southwestern colorado. they lived along the mogollon rim, especially from the 12th–14th century, when they abandoned their large villages. the name hopi is a shortened form of their autonym, hopituh shi-nu-mu ("the peaceful people" or "peaceful little ones"). the hopi dictionary gives the primary meaning of the word "hopi" as: "behaving one, one who is mannered, civilized, peaceable, polite, who adheres to the hopi way." in the past, hopi sometimes used the term "hopi" and its cognates to refer to the pueblo peoples in general, in contrast to other, more warlike tribes. hopi is a concept deeply rooted in the culture's religion, spirituality, and its view of morality and ethics. to be hopi is to strive toward this concept, which involves a state of total reverence and respect for all things, to be at peace with these things, and to live in accordance with the instructions of maasaw, the creator or caretaker of earth. the hopi observe their traditional ceremonies for the benefit of the entire world. traditionally, hopi are organized into matrilineal clans. when a man marries, the children from the relationship are members of his wife's clan. these clan organizations extend across all villages. children are named by the women of the father's clan. on the twentieth day of a baby's life, the women of the paternal clan gather, each woman bringing a name and a gift for the child. in some cases where many relatives would attend, a child could be given over forty names, for example. the child's parents generally decide the name to be used from these names. current practice is to either use a non-hopi or english name or the parent's chosen hopi name. a person may also change the name upon initiation into one of the religious societies, such as the kachina society, or with a major life event. the hopi have always viewed their land as sacred. agriculture is a very important part of their culture, and their villages are spread out across the northern part of arizona. the hopi and the navajo did not have a conception of land being bounded and divided. they lived on the land that their ancestors did. on december 16, 1882 president arthur passed an executive order creating a reservation for the hopi. it was much smaller than the navajo reservation, which was the largest in the country. on october 24, 1936 the hopi people ratified a constitution. that constitution created a unicameral government where all powers are vested in a tribal council. while there is an executive branch (tribal chairman and vice chairman) and judicial branch, their powers are limited under the hopi constitution. the traditional powers and authority of the hopi villages was preserved in the 1936 constitution. today, the hopi reservation is entirely surrounded by the much larger navajo reservation. the two nations used to share the navajo–hopi joint use area, but this was a source of conflict. the partition of this area, commonly known as big mountain, by acts of congress in 1974 and 1996, has also resulted in long-term controversy.