walkman is a sony brand tradename originally used for portable audio cassette/tape players in the late 1970s. in the 2010s, it was used to market sony's portable audio and video players as well as a line of former sony ericsson mobile phones. the original walkman actually introduced a change in music listening habits by allowing people to carry recorded music with them and listen to music through lightweight headphones. owners of the walkman were able to take back their "lost" time, commuting for example, and turn it into a pleasurable experience, or add a soundtrack to their urban surroundings. it was the privatization and personalization offered by the walkman that led to its success. the prototype was built in 1978 by audio-division engineer nobutoshi kihara for sony co-founder masaru ibuka. ibuka wanted to be able to listen to operas during his frequent trans-pacific plane trips, and presented the idea to kihara. the original idea for a portable stereo is credited to brazilian-german inventor andreas pavel. the first walkman was marketed in 1979 in japan, using the name walkman. from 1980, it was known as the soundabout in many other countries including the us, freestyle in sweden, and the stowaway in the uk. advertising, despite all the foreign languages, still attracted thousands of buyers in the us specifically. sony president and co-founder akio morita hated the name "walkman" and asked that it be changed, but relented after being told by junior executives that a promotion campaign had already begun using the brand name and that it would be too expensive to change. the names "walkman", "pressman", "watchman", "scoopman", "discman", and "talkman" are trademarks of sony, and have been applied to a wide range of portable entertainment devices manufactured by the company. the name "walkman" was based on its precursor, the pressman tape recorder. an initial prototype of the walkman was in fact made by replacing the monophonic recording circuit, head and speaker from the pressman with a stereo playback-only head and amplifier. sony continues to use the "walkman" brand name for most of their portable audio devices, after the "discman" name for cd players was dropped in the late 1990s.